Analysis was based on the conceptual framework proposed byPuigbo et al. (2007). The framework called OPTIMIZER is anon-line application where codon usage was used to optimizea DNA sequence to predict group of highly expressed genes.The modified algorithm starts from randomly chosen bacterialgenes to create the initial weight table. It then goes through aseries of iterations to find a group of highly expressed genesand a table with relative adaptiveness values.
Before using the algorithm, each genome was reduced bythe codons which role is not significant regarding to the codonbias (start or stop codons) or codon is related with one aminoacid .
The algorithm describe how the final relative adaptivenesstable which is the collection of Relative Adaptiveness (RA) ofthe most highly expressed genes from each bacterial genomewas  performed.  The  algorithm  for  a  chosen  genome  wasinitiated  by  the  group  of  selected  genes  corresponded  tothis  genome  along  with  the  calculation  of  the  RA.  Aftercalculation,  each  codon  in  the  whole  genome  was  replacedwith  received  RA.  The  next  step  was  to  calculate  CodonAdaptation  Index  (CAI)  of  each  gene  and  select  25  geneswith highest CAI value. The following step was to comparegiven  25  genes  with  the  initiating  genes  and  if  they  weredifferent then the new genes become initiating genes and theprocess was repeated until the new group of genes were equalto genes in previous iteration. Once the final group of geneswere established the value of RA were saved into final relativeadaptiveness table.
[1] Pere  Puigb`o,  Eduard  Guzm ́an,  Antoni  Romeu,  and  Santiago  Garcia-Vallv ́e.   OPTIMIZER: A web server for optimizing the codon usage ofDNA sequences.Nucleic Acids Research, 35(SUPPL.2), jul 2007.
